content/essays/how-to-build-a-time-tracking-app-in-react.md, before:

---
title: How To Build A Time Tracking App In React
date: 2024-05-29T16:58:44.000Z
updated: 2024-05-29T16:58:44.000Z
published: true
pagetype: https://schema.org/WebPage
itemtype: https://schema.org/Article
image: /uploads/2018/09/Screen-Shot-2018-09-26-at-7.28.39-AM.png
imagecap: Screenshot of my time tracking demo
imagealt: Taskbar at the top with the current time showing a list of recently completed tasks beneath.
---

In 2018, I built a time-tracking demo in React for a job I was applying for.

I had spent the years prior working with Angular (via Ionic), but many of the jobs I'd seen asked for React.

Since then, it's been dormant while I moved on to other things. I still only do a little React as my job is mostly backend Node.js development, but several side projects and one work project have had me refreshing myself with React.

Recently, I decided to take a stab at updating my demo as several things have changed through the years. Create React App is no longer in vogue, with people preferring Vite. I also dropped SCSS for CSS Modules. It's still using Redux, and I am still deciding if that's something I should keep.

I also set up things with pnpm workspaces and will probably add a backend soon.

If you'd like to follow my development, here's the code: [Time Tracking Demo](https://github.com/andrewshell/time-tracking-demo).

If you're a React guru and would like to review my code and give me notes, I'd appreciate it.

Commit message:

Updating images for react demo post

content/essays/how-to-build-a-time-tracking-app-in-react.md, after:

---
title: How To Build A Time Tracking App In React
date: 2024-05-29T16:58:44.000Z
updated: 2024-05-29T16:58:44.000Z
published: true
pagetype: https://schema.org/WebPage
itemtype: https://schema.org/Article
image: /uploads/2024/05/how-to-build-a-time-tracking-app-in-react.webp
imagecap: Image created by OpenAI's ChatGPT with DALL-E.
imagealt: A quirky, surreal image representing the blog post about building a time-tracking app in React.
---

In 2018, I built a time-tracking demo in React for a job I was applying for.

![Screenshot of Time Tracking Demo](/uploads/2018/09/Screen-Shot-2018-09-26-at-7.28.39-AM.png)

I had spent the years prior working with Angular (via Ionic), but many of the jobs I'd seen asked for React.

Since then, it's been dormant while I moved on to other things. I still only do a little React as my job is mostly backend Node.js development, but several side projects and one work project have had me refreshing myself with React.

Recently, I decided to take a stab at updating my demo as several things have changed through the years. Create React App is no longer in vogue, with people preferring Vite. I also dropped SCSS for CSS Modules. It's still using Redux, and I am still deciding if that's something I should keep.

I also set up things with pnpm workspaces and will probably add a backend soon.

If you'd like to follow my development, here's the code: [Time Tracking Demo](https://github.com/andrewshell/time-tracking-demo).

If you're a React guru and would like to review my code and give me notes, I'd appreciate it.
